
Before diving into <i>The Handmaid's Tale</i>, let's take a look at lower hanging fruit: animated television shows. Shows like <i>Family Guy</i>, <i>the Simpsons</i>, <i>Archer</i>, and <i>Rick and Morty</i> (used here) have a limited number of recurring characters, which reduces our workload to encode relationships. Another benefit is that people love making extensive wikis about these shows; this information can help you trace a character's appearance over one or multiple seasons. Last, the internet is abound with scripts that break episodes into specific scenes and use formatting that clearly identifies when a character speaks and to whom. 

The files below show you my process of manually encoding <i>Rick and Morty</i> s01e01 ("Pilot").

[rick-and-morty-nodes.csv](https://github.com/jardno/networks/blob/master/rick-and-morty-pilot-nodes.csv) provides a simple list of all named characters that appear in the episode with gender as an additional attribute. Each character has a unique id. This node file should be paired with [rich-and-morty-pilot.csv](https://github.com/jardno/networks/blob/master/rick-and-morty-pilot.csv), which lists the number of interactions <i>between</i> <b>each character</b> <i>within</i> <b>each scene</b>. I considered an interaction any instance a character spoke directly to another character or indirectly to a group of characters. The numbers in the Source and Target columns derive from the Id list in the node file.

[rick-and-morty-new.csv](https://github.com/jardno/networks/blob/master/rick-and-morty-pilot-new.csv) aggregates the number of interactions between two characters <i>across the entire episode</i> as a <b>weight</b> (e.g., Morty -> speaks to -> Rick -> x number of times).
